- [Narrator] Now it's time for us
to come up with a test plan for our controller components.
Just as we've done with our service components,
we should have a plan on how we're
going to test our controller components.
Let's revisit our architecture overview,
just to show where we are in our testing.
We will be testing spring MVC controllers
and let's go over some specifics of that plan.
Just as we had to come up with
some very specific ideas and objectives
for our integration testing, we need to do the same
for controller testing.
We need to ask ourselves the same questions we asked before,
however, there's one additional question you need
to be asking when you're testing your controllers.
You want to know if you're testing
MVC style controllers, REST style controllers,
or possibly both, and it really depends on your application.
Just to get a bit of background,
the only difference between MVC controllers
and REST controllers is
the output that they send back
to whatever code caused them.
For instance, in MVC controllers,
they're usually returning a ViewModel object
to some type of a webpage or html page
that knows what to do with that model.
Whereas REST controllers tend
to return a JSON or XML response.
For our purposes,
we are going to get test driven development practice
focusing on MVC style controllers only.
And just as before, we're going to stick to
our familiar scenario of testing our add contact behavior
for a new contacts management feature.
So let's get started.